get ready for five exercises to test the
age of your body you know we're all born
with innate flexibility and that's why
kids easily do splits and put their legs
over their heads those little freaks
unfortunately as time passes we lose our
natural flexibility and joint mobility
office work often worsens the situation
finally we find that it's difficult to
straighten our back or impossible to zip
up a dress yeah I find that dress thing
especially hard so our body slowly age
but is it possible to find out exactly
what it's still capable of well we at
bright side have five exercises that
will help you test your body's
flexibility and guess your body age
group prepare yourself for anything
because the results may be unpleasant
warm up before you try the exercises you
can either jump do squats or leg swings
or if you're like me you sit in a full
tub open the drain and try to resist the
current ain't just saying and now that
you're ready let's find out your true
body age counting down from number five
shoulder joint flexibility let's start
this by testing your shoulder joint
flexibility try to do this simple and
quick exercise put your hands together
behind your back
something like a reversed prayer do you
find it easy or difficult maybe it's a
bit painful let's see what it means if
you did it quickly without any
difficulties then congrats to you either
you're doing well or you're young if you
found this exercise rather challenging
then you simply need to practice more as
they say practice makes perfect right
however if it was very difficult you
definitely need some improvement for now
try to carefully grasp your elbows with
your palms behind your back
stay in this position for a few minutes
practice more if you don't want to
experience frozen shoulder symptoms what
can you do to improve your shoulder
flexibility the most effective exercises
for this purpose are all the different
kinds of stretches so be sure to do them
at least once a day to increase your
shoulder flexibility you can also try a
simple exercise that you can do pretty
much anywhere even during a little break
at work raise your arm up and bend it at
the elbow so it would be behind your
neck and head slide it a bit down your
back
now reach behind you with your left arm
so that the back of your hand would
touch the middle of your back finally
try to touch the fingers of both your
hands repeat the same thing this time
starting with your left arm don't go too
fast if you find this exercise to be
difficult take your time with even small
regular attempts you'll be able to do
this perfectly after some time number 4
spine flexibility now it's time to test
your spine flexibility let's do a small
exercise that you probably did a lot
during your PE classes at school stand
straight and keep your feet about
shoulder width apart then just lean
forward without bending your knees
though and try to touch the floor with
your hands is it challenging for you
let's find out what this says about your
body if you can put your whole palm on
the floor that's great
you're not older than 25 years old and
you stretch regularly nice job
continue to do what you're doing and
your body will thank you later if you
can touch the floor only with your
fingers that's okay but you need to
practice look up to the first group of
people and start to stretch more it's
nothing that cannot be changed at last
if you can't touch the floor you need to
work out your spine joints are probably
ready to become friends with a sofa a
warm blanket and knitting pull yourself
together and start exercising to be
stronger and more flexible with this a
lot of yoga poses can be quite useful
they aren't that crazy and hard to do
and will help you build a stronger body
that you've always dreamed of having
arching pigeon half wheel Eagle twist
and it's still not the whole list of
yoga poses you can do I like squatting
puppy myself hey just try it you'll feel
better after such regular workouts don't
forget that if you find it difficult to
choose the important exercises and put
together a good workout exercise list
then you can always check out this video
you'll find an effective full body
workout that will help you solve any
flexibility problems that you've
discovered and now we're moving forward
to the next challenge number three neck
and shoulder girdle flexibility and no
you don't wear a girdle on your head for
this one let's move along to your neck
and shoulder girdle flexibility yes it
can say a lot about your body age as
well here's what you should do come to
your knees while keeping your legs hip
width apart then lean back and try to
touch your heels with your hands wow
that was way more challenging than I
thought it would be if in the process
you realize that you definitely couldn't
touch your heels don't try too hard then
backward supporting your back with your
hands you're not a teenager and that's
why you should most certainly work on
your flexibility to have a stronger and
better body if it was no big deal for
you
hey then you're doing great just exit
the posture slowly to improve your
condition
start with neck flexibility exercises
you can tuck your chin until you feel a
stretch keep in mind that it shouldn't
be painful another great option is
taking your neck backwards then until
you feel a stretch oh that was good
repeat each of these exercises about
five times
now what about shoulder girdle
flexibility for you you can do some
kneeling exercises begin with a kneeling
position so that your feet are under
your hips now lift your hips and raise
your straight arms over your head
at the same time you can do some raises
to the sides as well as keeping one arm
down and lifting another up and over to
the opposite side repeat these simple
workouts about five times and don't
forget to do them regularly that's the
key to success
number two hip joint flexibility yes
it's good to be hip another important
thing that shows how young your body is
hip flexibility to find out whether it's
good or bad simply do a head to knee
bend here's how to do it sit on the
floor with your legs straight out in
front of you bend your right knee and
put your right foot against your inner
left thigh lower your torso and grab
your left foot so how easy is this
exercise for you I'm kind of struggling
here if you can easily touch your knee
with your forehead and stay in this
position for at least two minutes we
congratulate you why you must be Gumby
no actually your physical age is close
to school age how you were doing this is
behind me just keep all this hard work
going you're doing something right
however if you can't touch your knee or
your leg involuntarily bends your joints
aren't mobile and your rear thigh
muscles aren't elastic enough it's
something for you to work on if you want
to have a flexible and fit body okay if
you want to improve your hip joint
flexibility remember to do the following
exercises regularly just like with
pretty much everything else that is
connected to the flexibility stretches
are the answer here first of all sit
upright so that both of your legs are
straight then bend your right knee pull
it into your chest and hug it tight
until you feel a stretch again if it's
painful it's not a good sign try to make
it effective but still safe the second
good exercise is a seated stretch sit
with your legs bent out to the sides
place the bottoms of your feet together
and bring them as close to your groin as
possible
then just lean forward until you feel a
stretch do each of these exercises at
least five times a day for better
results if it's painful slow down
there's no need to hurry
since being quick does it make it more
effective take your time and listen to
your body and here's number one knee
joint flexibility we got to the final
test and it's going to show how good
your knee joint flexibility is here's
the challenge start with a simple push
up posture and try to push your hips
toward the ceiling until your body is in
the shape of an inverted V both your
feet should stay firmly on the ground oh
that dog is facing downward isn't it did
you do it already
the results are speaking for themselves
when you're young
this exercise isn't difficult making
small steps you exit the push-up posture
and perform a letter a posture easily
actually it even seems a bit fun yeah
right after 30 years the situation
changes it becomes way more challenging
to pass this test without bending your
elbows knees and back keep this problem
in mind and pay more attention to
stretching if you failed this test
altogether you're probably more than 50
years old and you're not friends with
sports at all knee joint flexibility can
be improved just don't be lazy and add a
couple of exercises to your daily
workouts the simplest thing you can do
is knee bends just like comfortably and
bend your knee as far as possible until
you feel a stretch other powerful
stretching exercises go like this place
your feet together and then slowly take
your heel towards your bottom until you
feel a stretch keep in mind you should
keep your knees together as well hold
this position for about 15 seconds
repeat each of these exercises about
five times and after some time you'll
feel your body becoming very flexible
and toned so which one of these
challenges did you find to be the most
difficult tell us in the comments
and below don't forget to hit the like
button right here and share this video
with all of your friends subscribe to
our channel to see more informative and
fun videos and always stay on the bright
side of life with us until next time